Function Documentation with Fixed Signatures and Event Links (#557)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/checkout/functions.mdx

import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

The Checkout drop-in provides API functions that enable you to programmatically control behavior, fetch data, and integrate with Adobe Commerce backend services.

<div style="background-color: var(--sl-color-blue-low); border-left: 4px solid var(--sl-color-blue); padding: 0.75rem 1rem; border-radius: 0.25rem; margin: 1rem 0;">
<strong>Version: 2.1.0</strong>
</div>

{/* AUTO-GENERATED CONTENT - Do not edit below this line */}

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0]}>

| Function | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [`estimateShippingMethods`](#estimateshippingmethods) | The estimateShippingMethods function returns a list with the available shipping methods for the given criteria. |
| [`getCart`](#getcart) | The getCart function retrieves the current cart's checkout data from Adobe Commerce. |
| [`getCheckoutAgreements`](#getcheckoutagreements) | The getCheckoutAgreements function returns a list with the available checkout agreements. |
| [`getNegotiableQuote`](#getnegotiablequote) | The getNegotiableQuote function retrieves a negotiable quote for B2B customers.. |

> | [`getStoreConfig`](#getstoreconfig) | The storeConfig query defines information about a store's configuration. |

Reviewer: Cursor is starting to derail here. It shouldn't be mentioning the queries/mutations that run behind the functions.

```suggestion
| [`getStoreConfig`](#getstoreconfig) | Returns information about a store's configuration. |
```

> | [`isEmailAvailable`](#isemailavailable) | The isEmailAvailable query checks whether the specified email has already been used to create a customer account. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`isEmailAvailable`](#isemailavailable) | Checks whether the specified email has already been used to create a customer account. |
```

> | [`setBillingAddress`](#setbillingaddress) | The setBillingAddress mutation sets the billing address for a specific cart or negotiable quote.. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`setBillingAddress`](#setbillingaddress) | Sets the billing address for a specific cart or negotiable quote. |
```

> | [`setGuestEmailOnCart`](#setguestemailoncart) | A logged-in customer specifies an email address when they create an account. |

Reviewer: Totally wrong.

```suggestion
| [`setGuestEmailOnCart`](#setguestemailoncart) | Applies a guest shopper's email to the active cart. |
```

> | [`setPaymentMethod`](#setpaymentmethod) | Sets the provided payment method on a cart or negotiable quote.. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`setPaymentMethod`](#setpaymentmethod) | Sets the provided payment method on a cart or negotiable quote. |
```

> | [`setShippingAddress`](#setshippingaddress) | Sets the provided shipping address on the active cart or negotiable quote.. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`setShippingAddress`](#setshippingaddress) | Sets the provided shipping address on the active cart or negotiable quote. |
```

> | [`setShippingMethods`](#setshippingmethods) | The setShippingMethods function sets one or more shipping methods on the cart.. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`setShippingMethods`](#setshippingmethods) | The setShippingMethods function sets one or more shipping methods on the cart. |
```

</TableWrapper>

## estimateShippingMethods

> The estimateShippingMethods function returns a list with the available shipping methods for the given criteria. The criteria could be a combination of fields: country, region, region identifier and zip code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `estimateShippingMethods` function returns a list of the available shipping methods and the estimated cost of each.
```

```ts
const estimateShippingMethods = async (
  input?: EstimateShippingInput
): Promise<ShippingMethod[] | undefined>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0, 1]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|

> | `input` | `EstimateShippingInput` | No | An object of type EstimateShippingInput, which contains a criteria object including the following fields: country_code, region_name, region_id, and zip. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `input` | `EstimateShippingInput` | No | An object of type EstimateShippingInput, which contains details about the shipping address. |
```

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Emits the [`shipping/estimate`](/dropins/checkout/events/#shippingestimate-emits-and-listens) event.

### Returns

Returns an array of [`ShippingMethod`](#shippingmethod) objects or `null`.

---

## getCart

> The `getCart` function retrieves the current cart's checkout data from Adobe Commerce. It automatically uses the cart ID from internal state and calls either the `getCart` or `customerCart` GraphQL query depending on authentication status. The returned data includes billing address, shipping addresses, available and selected payment methods, email, total quantity, and virtual cart status—all the information needed to complete the checkout process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getCart` function uses the cart ID from internal state to construct a `cart` query. The returned data includes billing address, shipping addresses, available and selected payment methods, email, total quantity, and virtual cart status—all the information needed to complete the checkout process.
```

```ts
const getCart = async (): Promise<any>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns a [`Cart`](#cart) model containing complete checkout information.

---

## getCheckoutAgreements

> The getCheckoutAgreements function returns a list with the available checkout agreements. Each agreement has a name and the mode (manual or automatic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The getCheckoutAgreements function returns a list with the available checkout agreements. Each agreement includes a name and the mode (manual or automatic).
```

```ts
const getCheckoutAgreements = async (): Promise<CheckoutAgreement[]>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns an array of [`CheckoutAgreement`](#checkoutagreement) objects.

---

## getNegotiableQuote

The `getNegotiableQuote` function retrieves a negotiable quote for B2B customers.

```ts
const getNegotiableQuote = async (
  input: GetNegotiableQuoteInput = {}
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0, 1]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `GetNegotiableQuoteInput` | No | Input parameters including the quote UID to retrieve. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

---

## getStoreConfig

> The storeConfig query defines information about a store's configuration. You can query a non-default store by changing the header in your GraphQL request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getStoreConfig` function returns information about a store's configuration.
```

```ts
const getStoreConfig = async (): Promise<any>
```

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

---

## isEmailAvailable

> The isEmailAvailable query checks whether the specified email has already been used to create a customer account. A value of true indicates the email address is available, and the customer can use the email address to create an account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `isEmailAvailable` function checks whether the specified email has already been used to create a customer account. A value of true indicates the email address is available, and the customer can use the email address to create an account.
```

```ts
const isEmailAvailable = async (
  email: string
): Promise<EmailAvailability>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0, 1]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `email` | `string` | Yes | A string representing the email address to check for availability. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns [`EmailAvailability`](#emailavailability).

---

## setBillingAddress

> The setBillingAddress mutation sets the billing address for a specific cart or negotiable quote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `setBillingAddress` function sets the billing address for a specific cart or negotiable quote.
```

```ts
const setBillingAddress = async (
  input: BillingAddressInputModel
): Promise<any>
```

<TableWrapper nowrap={[0, 1]}>

| Parameter | Type | Req? | Description |
|---|---|---|---|
| `input` | `BillingAddressInputModel` | Yes | The billing address to set on the cart, including street, city, region, country, and postal code. |

</TableWrapper>

### Events

Does not emit any drop-in events.

### Returns

Returns `void`.

---

## setGuestEmailOnCart

> A logged-in customer specifies an email address when they create an account. Therefore, you can place the order without explicitly setting the email.

Reviewer: (facepalm)

```suggestion
The `setGuestEmailOnCart` function applies the specified email address to the guest's cart.
```
